>> This is "Nuevo," an
exploration of two ships that
came down near the Los
Alamos nuclear power plant,
the only place in the world
in 1947 that produced atomic
bombs.
This is the second of
three mysterious cases
of three alien craft that
crash landed in New Mexico.
And it's revealed in
official documents.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> Never before in history is
there a record of four ships
that crashed on our planet
in three different places,
each location
close to the other.
Between 1945 and 1948 near
the Los Alamos nuclear plant,
at least four spaceships crashed
to the ground, most likely
due to the interference
generated by powerful microwave
radars, radars
that were operating
in the area for the
protection of the only place
where atomic bombs
were produced in 1947.
This is a truly fascinating
and mysterious case.
>> Between 1945 and '48, three
ships came down in the vicinity
of the Los Alamos nuclear
plant in New Mexico.
Consider for a moment
that the three ships that
crashed to the Earth were very
near to the only place in 1945
that atomic bombs were
being built and tested.
As indicated by the only
official information available,
a memorandum that the director
of the field investigation
office of the FBI in
Washington, DC, Guy Hottel,
sent to the Director General
of the agency, J. Edgar Hoover,
in March of 1950.
In this document, the
Special Agent informed Hoover
that an Air Force
pilot had told him
that three extraterrestrial
spacecraft had crashed
in New Mexico, that
they had recovered
the bodies of the occupants,
which were only one
meter in height, and the
ships were brought down
due to high frequencies
and powerful radars that
operated in the area to
interfere with airplanes'
navigation systems.
Although the FBI has denied any
possibility of this information
being true, the discovery
that a third ship
crashed in the vicinity of
the Los Alamos nuclear plant
changes the story and
adds additional proof
that these incidents
really happened.
Not only do we understand
that the information was real,
but what is increasingly
evident and continually denied
is what we present in
our video investigations.
However, every piece of
evidence, every testimony,
and every inquiry
has been ruled out
by the government
of the United States
by skeptics and
even, in some cases,
by UFO researchers themselves.
The actuality of what
happened is becoming clearer.
The concealment of the
truth began on July 9, 1947,
and the government decided
to repress all those who
contributed to the stories.
In the end, the
military actually
found a second ship
that had crashed
near the Los Alamos nuclear
plant, a national security
secret.
>> On the afternoon of July
8, 1947, a Tuesday, I believe,
the "Roswell Daily Record"
would publish a historical cover
story that the Air Force
recovered an extraterrestrial
ship nearby.
One day later, on
Wednesday, July the 9th,
the Air Force said it was
mistaken, that it was just
a weather balloon.
Your father, Walter Haut,
was a very important man
in this story.
>> Well, he put out the first
press release, so I'd say yes.
I issued the press
release saying,
basically, we have in our
possession a flying saucer,
and it's being flown to
a higher headquarters.
And typically, he would
end any conversation
about the press release or
about the incident of by saying
it was not of this Earth.
>> The statement that the
"Roswell Daily Record"
published on the afternoon
of Tuesday, July 8, 1947,
is now a historical
record on the front page.
Later the US Army
modified it, assuring
that it was not a flying saucer
or an extraterrestrial craft,
but that it was a simple
meteorological balloon that
had fallen from the sky.
They forced Mack Brazel to
change his testimony, who
then said he had exaggerated.
>> What is this here?
>> This is when the military
in their futile attempt to find
Brazel, to find the one witness
who could blow up the whole
story, not only the ship, the
remains of the flying saucer,
but the very bodies, they found
him and they kept him here.
They kept him here for five
days after the weather balloon
explanation was put
out, and they kept him
in what they called
the guesthouse.
>> After Mack Brazel was
kidnapped and held against his
will in this place
for five days,
he was escorted by the Army
to the "Roswell Daily Record"
and to the local radio
station to deny his story.
>> Frank Joyce, that original
reporter who encouraged him
to report it to the military,
he puts him on the air
and he's talking to the people.
It's just a weather balloon.
I'm sorry that I overreacted.
And Joyce takes him off
mic and follows him out
into the lobby of
the radio station,
and then he sees
what's going on.
He sees a number of MPs, a
number of military police,
standing right outside the radio
station waiting for Brazel.
Well, he's being
forced to do this.
And Joyce asks
Brazel, why are you
telling me the second story?
This isn't what you
originally told me.
And Brazel, being the older
of the two, says, son,
they told me they would
go awful hard on me
if I didn't do
exactly as they said.
And Brazel turned and
started to walk out.
And Joyce says to
him, well, what
about the little green men?
And Brazel turns back and
says, they weren't green.
>> From Washington, DC, the
media was ordered to remain
silent.
Any attempt to spread
the original story
of the extraterrestrial
craft and its beings
would be silenced.
>> The FBI, stop immediately.
So they shut it down.
>> The compulsory
untruth was imposed.
The story of the weather
balloon was created,
and people everywhere
were forced to accept it.
The extraterrestrial
story was silenced.
>> Something that General
Ramey was able to accomplish
in getting the press to believe,
that the men who were stationed
here back in '47, the men who
were in charge of the atomic
bomb, the men who had the
highest security clearances
in the United States military
could not recognize a very
common weather balloon device
that even a five-year-old child
would have.
And the press accepted it.
And that's how this all
had to come together.
And they had to ensure that
the media, that the press
completely cooperated because
if the press wouldn't have,
they would have discovered that
there were many more witnesses.
They would have
discovered that there
are many more people involved.
And it would have
come out to the extent
that we wouldn't be
talking about it right now.
It would be common knowledge.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> My dad was one of the
soldiers or the military people
that went out and picked the
aliens up when they crashed
here in 1947.
When he was starting he
had agent orange cancer
from the military
from being in Vietnam,
and he finally told us about it,
told my sister and I about it,
and said, the government
was trying to cover it up,
that it really happened.
It's not something that
was just fictitious,
that it really happened.
It wasn't a weather balloon.
It was a crash site.
And he said he
went out and found,
that when he got there that
he observed the crash site,
a circular-type ship crash site.
And there was debris
strewn everywhere,
and that he had
found three bodies.
They had large hands on him,
and at least one of them
was still alive when they
brought him back to the base.
>> Donald Schmitt interviewed
more than 150 direct witnesses
and more than 600
indirect witnesses.
Many of them received the
testimony of their relatives
on their deathbed,
their last testament
of their phenomenal experience.
>> As he is giving his
last testimony to his wife,
and she describes this, and
she starts to become emotional.
And she says, he told me.
He said, I want you to know,
I've always been true to you.
I've always been faithful.
And then he tells
her about Roswell.
He equated that--
so in other words,
that level of emotional
attachment, his marriage,
his faithfulness to his wife was
on the same level of importance
as what happened in 1947.
>> A similar case is
voiced by Carlene Green.
Her father had the
highest security clearance
in the United States Air Force.
Two weeks before he
died, he broke silence
and told the secret he kept
for more than 26 years.
>> As they were getting ready
to put him on the gurney,
to load them up, he told me.
He said-- he always
called me his baby.
He said, baby, don't
ever let anyone tell you
that that crash didn't happen.
He said, it happened.
I was out there.
I saw the crash site.
I saw the spacecraft,
and the saw the grays.
I knelt beside him and I kissed
him, and I told him, Daddy,
I love you.
And I'll see you soon.
To see grown men cry,
to well up and cry over
something that, according
to the government,
was something so
conventional, so recognizable
as just being a weather balloon.
So I'm at the point
that I just can't
accept that all these people are
lying about this common thread
describing this same incident.
And my conclusion is
that I am 99% convinced.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> Like this witness,
who as a young man worked
in the Strategic Air Command of
the armed forces of the United
States, and who had access
to Roswell secret files.
>> There were a few
pictures in there,
showed three dead aliens and
two standing, apparently alive.
I have no way of knowing that.
And I looked at
the pictures, and I
saw the pictures of
the craft as they
were taken after it had come
to rest on the neutral ground.
I'll be honest with you.
I regret deeply
not being able to--
not having read
the entire report.
There must have
been a lot in there.
Now, I am a firm believer
that the government
wants to keep quiet.
The saucer existed.
I saw the pictures of it.
The back-- well, I assume
the back right-hand corner
was gone.
There was no way to determine
if it was the front, the side,
or the rear of the spacecraft.
I quit calling it flying
saucer because, yes, it
looked like one, but it
was actual spacecraft.
>> In Roswell, New Mexico,
where the second ship came down
on July 3 of '47, witnesses such
as Frankie Rowe were threatened
if they talked
about what they saw.
She was told that
she and her parents
would be killed and
buried in the desert where
no one would find
them if she revealed
any details of the incident.
>> Probably in the wrong
place at the wrong time.
I was at the fire
station the day
the state policeman came by, and
he had a piece of the material.
And all of the firemen
handled it and played with it.
And when they were
through playing with it,
I got to handle it and
play with it for a while.
>> What did you do with it?
>> I would wad it up in my hand
and then drop it on the table.
And by the time it hit the
table, it was totally flat.
And it was so soft,
that it did not wrinkle.
It didn't make a noise.
There was no noise, and
you couldn't feel anything
when it was in your hand.
>> Did you crush it?
>> You could just
mash it up to nothing.
You couldn't feel it in there.
It was like holding air
or maybe quicksilver,
if you've ever played with
a thermometer when you were
a kid, which that's poisonous.
I understand now, but
we didn't know it then.
But it was like holding
nothing in your hand.
>> What happened to it?
>> To the piece of material?
The state policemen
took it back.
I don't know what
happened to it, finally,
because after everybody
talked about it,
I went back to Daddy's
room after a while.
I was there because I had
had to go to the doctor,
and I had been sitting out in
the kitchen area eating ice
chips after I came
back from the doctor's.
And otherwise, I would
not have been there.
And we knew about Daddy
going to the crash site
because a few days before
that, when he came home,
he told us about it.
So it wasn't a surprise when
the state policeman said
that he wanted to show Daddy
and his crew something he
had gotten at the crash site.
>> A few days later, a
serviceman who was a New York
state policeman showed up at
her house to threaten Frankie
and her family that if
she continued to talk,
she would be silenced forever.
>> He first tried to convince
me I didn't know anything,
I didn't see anything, and
I didn't hear anything.
And I kept insisting
I did because we
were taught you couldn't lie.
And when he insisted, you
don't know anything at all.
And he finally said,
if you don't understand
that you don't know
anything, I'll tell you
what will happen to you.
He said, you know,
we've still got--
we had to POW camps here
during World War II.
This is very shortly
after World War II is over
that this all happened.
And he said, you can be
taken from your parents.
We'll send them to
one of the POW camps.
We'll send all of the
kids to the other.
And one was south of
Roswell, called Orchard Park,
and the other one
was in Artesia.
And the Artesia camp was
not actually a POW camp.
It was the Japanese internment
camp for the Japanese citizens.
And he said, now, if
that doesn't convince you
that you can't
talk about this, we
can just take you out here
and kill you in the desert.
He said, it's a big, old desert.
Nobody will ever
find your bodies.
So we'll just bury
you out there.
Nobody will ever know
you were ever here.
So I promised I
wouldn't talk about it.
>> Were you impressed?
>> I was scared to death,
absolutely scared to death.
It was probably '91 before
I ever mentioned it again.
And at that point in time,
Kevin Randle and Don Schmitt
had just partnered up and
started researching it.
And Kevin convinced me that they
weren't going to hurt me now.
I was an adult. I
decided, because my mother
had just passed away
two years prior,
that she wouldn't be hurt.
So I went ahead and talked
about it for the first time.
He said that they had gone--
they thought they were
going to plane crash site.
And they did go out for things
like range fires and plane
crashes and things
like that, but he
said, when we got there we found
a flying saucer had crashed.
And there was one
that was still alive,
and he was walking
around, and two
that were in body bags
laying on the ground.
And he said they were already in
the bags before they got there.
And the little one that
was walking around,
talked to them in their
head, and that was
a shock to all of the firemen.
And he said, we talked
about it, and everybody
heard the same thing,
although there was no sound.
So it was mental
telepathy, but my dad
wouldn't have known
the terminology for it,
not in 1950 or
'47 when that was.
>> What did he tell you?
What did he tell him?
>> The little person told him,
we're not here to hurt you.
We don't mean anybody any harm.
There's nothing you
can do to help us.
Because they were talking
about, among themselves,
what can we do?
What should we do?
And the little person
told them, there's
nothing you can do to help us.
He said, there's
nothing you can do.
And that's pretty
close to the point
that the military got there
and told them to leave.
So they left.
>> But they saw everything.
>> They saw two that
were obviously dead,
and one that was alive
and walking and talking.
And he made a believer that
they would take care of us
if we talked about it.
>> And you think they would?
>> Absolutely.
Not a doubt in my mind.
I guess the man
really did impress me
because I did remember what
he looked like about 50 years
after it happened.
I could still see his face.
>> Frankie Rowe died
on July 28, 2017.
She was the last
witness who claimed
to have had one of the pieces of
the Roswell ship in her hands.
Frankie died without having
seen her dream come to fruition,
that the government
of the United States
would accept and
recognize that the crash
landing of an
extraterrestrial ship
actually happened in
Roswell, New Mexico, in 1947.
>> I think someday the
truth will come out,
but it won't be in my lifetime
because when Jimmy Carter was
running for president,
he promised to bring all
the details out.
But he couldn't.
And I still think they're
probably still watching this.
They did tell Daddy they'd been
watching us for a long time.
And he said, we
mean you no harm.
>> Frankie Rowe, who was a
12-year-old girl in 1947,
died in 2017 without having
seen her dream come true,
that the government of the
United States accept what
happened in Roswell as something
that actually happened,
that one or even two ships of
extraterrestrial origin crash
landed there.
There are fewer and fewer
witnesses that are still alive.
Unfortunately, time
has outrun them.
However, their testimonies
and their records
remain as a
testament to history.
I am Jaime Maussan,
and I will see you
on the next episode of "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo"
with Jaime Moussan.